hi everyone so today I'm going to be
diving into a new project that will
utilize the script that I made if you
haven't heard I came out with a new
script on gumroad called batch it up
that will batch edit your After Effects
comp so all you have to do is make a
template comp and the script will take
the info from a CSV file and do all the
work from there and it's free actually
it's at a numero price rate so please
consider tossing a dollar or two my way
the link is down in the description
I'm going to be working on an Athletics
graphic today using the Sacred Heart
University men's basketball team stats
to show you how this works so without
further Ado let's Dive In my process
gets broken up into a few parts
so the first thing I'm going to do is
collect my data and convert it into a
CSV file so if I open this up here I
have all my player stats I'm just doing
um five players for now just to show you
how this works quickly but you can do
many more players or rows or whatever
you need the only thing the only setup
for this that's important you need to
have a name column this is what your
comps are going to be named when your
batch is done and so this this will be
more clear later but just know that it
has to have name it can't have a space
at the end it has to be a capital N it
has to say name not names
Etc
um anything else is whatever you need it
to be but then the other thing if you
have a photo this column needs to be
named photo not photos capital P and
photo it needs to be this it's case
sensitive in this photo column you're
going to put the name of your photos
that are associated with
um you know this row so if you're using
pngs use dot PNG at the end if you're
using jpegs.jpg etc etc etc you're going
to be importing your photos into After
Effects into their own little folder so
they just have to be the same name as
what's imported into After Effects so
now that all my data is in here I can
actually just close this out
and save it as a CSV file the next thing
that I have to do once I made my CSV
file I have to make sure I have all my
photos ready so I jump into Photoshop
and I placed all of my player photos
here in uh their own layers and I
actually even cut them out I went the
extra mile you don't have to do this
obviously but if you want to stylize
them or anything like that Now's the
Time to do it and this is all obviously
in one file and then they're all each in
their individual layers and I'll tell
you why in a sec so once I have this all
cut out and my layers are ready to be
exported I go to file export and then I
do layers to files and then I you know
choose the destination I say what the
file type I want to be so I can say PNG
keep the transparency and then I hit run
and then it will export them to this
folder with the PNG using the layer name
here I also want to make sure that this
file name prefix is deleted and then
once I run it it'll have the correct
name because it'll be the name of this
layer if you're using photos you do need
a placeholder photo so my placeholder
photo is just the mascot for Sacred
Heart University
um but you do need a placeholder and it
needs to be named placeholder there's
more specific stuff about that and I'll
get to that in a second okay so once my
photos are exported from Photoshop I can
now bring them in to After Effects and
you can see I just renamed this folder a
just something really simple and easy to
find later
um here's all mine
um here's all my photos in there and
then now I can get to designing I want
to make a card flip animation so I'm
going to be making my template first so
I start by making a five by seven comp
so this is five by seven
and I'm going to rename it underscore
template
one and I'm going to go ahead and just
put it into its own folder and I'm going
to rename the folder
um
T1
so I know that this is my output for
template one because when you run the
script and it replaces all of the stuff
in your template
um all of the new files get put into its
own little subfolder so I like to put it
just right into its own folder
automatically and I put an underscore in
the name so that it stays at the top and
it's just easy to find
so for the sake of time in this tutorial
I'm actually just going to go into free
pick and search up
um like sports card like this one is
good
and then when I open it in illustrator
I'm going to use my Overlord plugin to
just send it straight to After Effects
oh objects are in there nice and pretty
I'm gonna make a new null so that it
just lines up
I do usually natively
make designs just straight in After
Effects but I just for the sake of time
I decided just to use this free pick
sample
foreign
[Music]
so now I'm going to add some of the
stuff that is going to be replaced for
each player so for starters I'm going to
have
the
name
[Music]
and I'm just going to do some code on
the scales so that no matter how long
the player's name is it will always fit
in this box
so with this simple thing which I
shamelessly took from baller effects now
no matter
how long my
name is it well always be in this box
so in my CSV file the full name of the
player is in this player name column so
I need to rename this layer player name
so it matches the column header
so all I need to do is Click enter on
this layer Ctrl V
and now
the script will know to replace this
layer with the player's full name now I
also want to add the player's number in
here
and again as you can see the text that
I'm using does not match the column
header it's just the layer name that
needs to match the column header so
again I rename this number because
that's what's in my CSV file
and then finally I want to add my
placeholder photo in here
and I'm just going to place this
here
so once this is placed where I want I
need to make sure that my placeholder is
actually named
placeholder.jpg it's just a little Quirk
of the script so it just needs to be
placeholder
dot jpeg
and then again it doesn't have to be a
JPEG this is a PNG but as long as the
layer is named placeholder.jpg this is
going to work
foreign
with a few details added I'm ready for
my script to be run for visual player's
name so you can see I didn't use all of
my columns
um this is just going to be the card for
them like their player card and then I'm
going to have a different composition
for their stats so let me just run this
to show you how it works so first I am
going to run my script
and first it's going to ask me the
absolute path of my CSV file so where
it's located on my computer so
um I can actually just
paste this here
so you can see it's located in my D
drive and a folder called Tut script
tutorial shoe men's basketball stats dot
CSV
okay now it's asking me where the folder
with my photos are stored in After
Effects so I labeled this a so I'm just
going to type a
and then one of the other little quirks
of this is that it makes a blank comp
I'm planning on fixing that in future
iterations but right now it makes a
blank comment that's pretty easy I just
delete
and now when I open this you can see
all of my players changed
so I might have to move this for this
guy but
that was poor planning on my part but uh
yeah this is all set all ready to go so
um with that I am going to
make a new template and that is going to
be my stats comp
so if I just jump to this I made another
comp that's seven by five in a similar
folder as my T1
so it's just T2 output so template two
so then my plan for this is going to
animate out of the card so I'm just
going to do a really simple animation
with some of my stats
foreign
[Music]
also you'll probably notice to keep
everything organized I'm also changing
the color of the layers that will be
changed by the CSV file to Yellow just
so that they're easier to find and it
just keeps everything a little bit more
organized
so once this animation is done and my
layers are all labeled correctly based
on my CSV file I am going to run my
script again
[Music]
now obviously I don't have a placeholder
photo in here so it's going to give me
an error message
um but that's okay it'll still work
and you'll see I have another empty
layer
and there it is there's all my stats for
each of my players now to avoid that
glitch where it's like oh we can't find
the placeholder
um what you can do is and I can just
delete these and rerun it
what I can do is actually add a null
that's labeled placeholder oops
placeholder dot jpeg
and now when I run the script
it runs no problem
if you don't have any photos for yours
and you do use the null but you don't
have any folders with the with any like
photos or anything just put a random
file name or a random letter or anything
and it should be fine okay so this is
all done and I am ready to
start animating
so I will actually just be using my
templates for now and then making this
actually into an essential graphic which
I will get to later oh before I start
animating I actually want to make a back
version of this because what I'm going
to do is have it come in flip and then
um yeah so I just need a bag for this
so I just made the back look like this
it'll do for now
and so now I am really ready to start in
a meeting so I'm just going to zip right
through this
[Music]
okay so this is exactly how I want mine
to look now you could be animating yours
already and you know taking each
individual player and making their own
animation but I'm going to turn this
into an essential graphic so I can pass
this off to a project manager and they
can choose whichever one of these
players that they need at any given
point
so to do that I am going to
make a new adjustment layer in my
composition
the top here
and I'm going to add a drop down menu
control
and then I'm going to lock this so I can
easily access it later
now going back into my projects panel
I'm going to take my template one and
I'm just going to click and drag it to
make a new precomp and then I'm going to
select all of my players and I'm going
to drag them on top of my template then
I'm going to rename this comp
all player cards
so now I'm going to go back into my
effects panel
and I'm going to edit
and then I'm going to rename manually
each of these items so that they match
the order of my players
and then I'm going to hit OK
and then for my first layer I'm going to
hit t
and ALT click on the stopwatch
I'm going to make a new reference to my
drop down menu
pick clip here
colon
and then I'm going to make an if else
statement so if
the drop down menu
equals and to say equals in this it is
equals equals
so if the drop down menu equals the
index number of this layer
then please make this layer 100 opacity
otherwise or else make it zero
and colon
all right so now to really see if this
works I'm going to copy this so I just
press Ctrl C Ctrl V on all of these
and now I should be able
to flip right through all of these
there we go
and now I'm going to do the same thing
with my template two so I'm going to
drag this into its own
pre-comp I'm going to rename this
pre-comp as
all player stats
click and drag all of these on top of
the template and then I can actually
just paste that
opacity value again
and we should be good
so back in my main comp
instead of template one I'm going to
click on template one and replace it
with all player cards
so again alt click
and drag
template two same thing click and drag
the all player stats
so now
my drop down menu
will change
each person
so now I'm going to open the essential
Graphics panel open this up
and click and drag the menu
export Motion Graphics template
add any keywords that will make it easy
to find in the essential Graphics panel
in premiere
and then you can just hit OK to export
from there wherever you saved it
on your drive you could just click and
drag it into Premiere and it is fully
editable
so here I'm just clicking dragging into
premiere
and then I'm just gonna
this to show you
and there you go
and now when I go into here or even into
the central Graphics panel I have this
drop down menu
and I could change it as needed and I
could duplicate this
to a different person
so there you go that was a sample
project from start to finish using the
script that I made I hope you found this
helpful I hope you find this script
helpful once again it's on gumroad if
you want to try it out for free if you
found this video helpful please consider
giving it a like And subscribe and of
course feel free to leave a comment with
any questions or anything else you might
want to see in a future video